All right I want to look at the previous example again except I wanted to show you what happens now.
If when you set your current directions at the beginning of a problem what happens if you pick the wrong
answer.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to keep the current eye the way it was set up like this.
Now keep the current eye to the way it is.
Previously I had the current one flowing down through this resistance are two what I'm going to do now
is I'm going to pick something like this.
Imagine here I had initially set up the current I wanted to be in this direction.
OK.
So we're going to resolve the exact same problem except let's look at what happens at the solution now
and how it changes and what it means.
So even if I switch the current direction I would still get the same equivalent resistance.
This really has nothing to do with the current So I'd still get my 13 divided by three which gives me
a total equivalent resistance for this network of 4.3 ohms.
Given this I would still solve for the current AI.
And that's the current flowing through this bottom branch and I would still get my value equal to 2.3.
And again that would simply be obtain the current Iowas a result of taking the voltage of the battery
10 divided by my equivalent resistance which gives me 10 divided by 13 over three.
So that's 30 over 13 which gave me the 2.3 ohms.
Yeah 2.3 amps rather.
OK so right back to where we were.
Now one thing that would immediately change would be the junction rule if you write the junction Roulet
junction over here the junction rule would change if you have the current one flowing up rather than
flowing down the junction rule would now look like this.
Whatever current flows into the junction it's I plus the current one has to be equal to the current
Aitu right because we have two currents flowing in and we have one current flowing out of the junction
so that one would look a little bit different.
And the other the case.
Now while let's imagine doing our loop rule let's do Kirchhoff's loop rule doing this inner loop.
Let's see what would change.
Well it's called this equation too.
So first thing I encounter.
Well that term doesn't change it's still plus 10 because I cross a MF going from the low to a high electrical
potential.
And now I cross a resistance R1 so I get a voltage drop.
That turn doesn't change.
And that's three multiplied by the current 2.3 and.
OK so now I'm going to go down this branch with the current one.
However look at what happens.
Now I'm crossing this resistor and I'm crossing it opposite the direction of the current.
OK which means I'm going toward a higher electrical potential which means you have to I'm increasing
the electrical potential and I'm going to increase it by Ohm's law.
Right by the voltage difference across this resistor which is two multiplied by the current one equals
to zero.
Well if I look at equation 2 again the only unknown in this equation is the current one.
So I can do a little bit of math in order to isolate that unknown and so forth.
So let's go ahead and do that if I bring this term on the other side I get minus two I 1.
And then the equation you should get for I 1 is this.
So it's 10 minus three two point three.
Then at the end you'd probably have to divide through by negative two.
Now you punched the numbers in your calculator.
The one thing you notice here is that this negative sign appears.
Everything else looks the same except the current I get is minus 1.5 5 amps.
I'm not going to go ahead now and solve the outer one.
We're going to get the same answers what we previously did.
But I want to point this out.
So I won is equal to minus 1.5 5.
Now this is an important result.
And whenever you solve our rules.
The juncture rule in combination with the loop rules and if you solve for the currents and you're consistent
when you cross your elements and you've done all the physics right you're consistent with whatever direction
of the current You picked and you end up getting a negative answer like this.
It simply means that your guess was wrong.
So my initial guess here if I got a negative answer for this value it tells me that oh I should go through
and actually switch the direction.
The correct answer is should be a current flowing down like this and call it.
I won OK.
So that's all these negative signs tell me that my guess my initial guess really
was wrong.
So all you have to do then just go back to your diagram switch the direction and then you'll be fine.